
Q1.What is the difference between Compiler and Interpreter?
compiler -> It is a software which takes sourcecode(HLL) as the input and generates
MLL code as the ouput
To convert the HLL code to MLL code compiler will scan the HLL code
only once.
Interpreter =>It is a software which takes sourcecode(HLL) as the input and
generates MLL code as the ouput
To convert the HLL code to MLL code interpreter will scan the HLL
code mulitple times(depends on the instrcutions).

Q2.What is the difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM?
=> java program to run we need to set up the environment in our machines
=> To set up the environment we need to install JDK software to our machines.
=> JDK stands for Java Development kit, it provides libraries and the requried
files to run our java programs
=> JDK :: JRE + JVM
=> JRE :: Java RunTimeEnvironment, It provides suitable environment to run our
java program.
=> JVM :: Java Virtual Machine, It is responsible to run our java programs on the
basis of MultiThreading
Q3.How many types of memory areas are allocated by JVM?
types of memory areas are allocated by JVM:
Class(Method) Area
Heap
Stack
Program Counter Register
Native Method Stack

Q4.What is JIT compiler?
A just-in-time (JIT) compiler is a program that turns bytecode into instructions that can be sent directly to a 
computer's processor (CPU). 
Q5.What are the various access specifiers in Java?
Private: The access level of a private modifier is only within the class. It cannot be accessed from outside the class.
Default: The access level of a default modifier is only within the package. It cannot be accessed from outside the package. If you do not specify any access level, it will be the default.
Protected: The access level of a protected modifier is within the package and outside the package through child class. If you do not make the child class, it cannot be accessed from outside the package.
Public: The access level of a public modifier is everywhere. It can be accessed from within the class, outside the class, within the package and outside the package.
 
Q6.What is a compiler in Java?
java programs will be first compiled,to compile java program we need java
compiler and java compiler will be installed when we install
jdk software.

=> javaprogram would be first compiled(javac filename.java)
=> If the compilation is succesfull, it would generate .class file
=> These .class files will be used by jvm during the execution
=> .class file generated will have instructions in bytecode(neither HLL nor MLL).
=> bytecodes will be taken by JVM and it will be loaded inside JRE, then the
execution begins.

Q7.Explain the types of variables in Java?
There are three types of variables in Java:
local variable:A variable declared inside the body of the method is called local variable.
instance variable:A variable declared inside the class but outside the body of the method, is called an instance variable.
static variable:A variable that is declared as static is called a static variable.You can create a 
single copy of the static variable and share it among all the instances of the class.

Q8.What are the Datatypes in Java?
Datatypes:
Primitive data types: The primitive data types include boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double.
Non-primitive data types: The non-primitive data types include Classes, Interfaces, and Arrays.

Q9.What are the identifiers in java?
identifer is a name in java program.
identifer can be classname,methodname,variablename,labelname.

Q10.Explain the architecture of JVM.
Java code is first compiled into byte code to generate a class file. This class file is then interpreted 
by the Java Virtual Machine for the underlying platform.
The same class file can be executed on any version of JVM running on any platform and operating system.
The JVM consists of three distinct components:
1.Class Loader
2.Runtime Memory/Data Area
3.Execution Engine
